New chapters (#312)
infinum/eightshift-docs: website/forms/features/result-output.md

---
id: result-output
title: Result output
---

> Result output is a feature that allows you to display and block or multiple blocks when the user successfully submits the form. This is useful for forms that require users to perform calculations or you want to display a message to the user after they submit the form.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Result output is a feature that allows you to display a single or multiple blocks when the user successfully submits a form. This is useful for forms that require users to perform calculations or if you want to display a message to the user after they have submit the form.
```

Reviewer 2: ```after they have submit the form.```

Sounds off.

```after they have submitted the form.``` should be correct.

![Result output](/img/forms/result-output-1.webp)

## Configuration

To configure the result output you must follow a few steps:

1. Add a result output item that you will reference later. Result outputs list can be found in the WordPress admin sidebar mene.

2. Create a new form.

3. Open a page where you want to use this form and add it using `forms` block.

4. On the same page you need to add a `result output` block.

5. Configure `result output` block by providing the form ID and the result output ID in the block settings.

6. It is useful to disable global message on form success for better user experience. This option can be found in the form settings.

7. Once the user has submitted the form the result output will be displayed.

![Result output settings](/img/forms/result-output-2.webp)

## Result output item block

> In the result output editor you can find another block called `result output item`. This is useful if you want ot change bigger chunks of content based on the user input. Also this block can be used to show personalized message or blocks to the user based on the their input.

Reviewer: Wabbits suggestion is valid ☝🏼

![Result output item block](/img/forms/result-output-3.webp)

:::caution

> This block will not do anything by default as it requires some code configuration provided by the developer. To provide data used in this block you can use [custom filters](/forms/php/filters/block/form/result-output-items).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This block will not do anything by default as it requires code configuration provided by the developer. To provide data used in this block you can use [custom filters](/forms/php/filters/block/form/result-output-items).
```

:::

> To configure this block you need to add it to you result output builder and provide a name and value that will match the data provided by the filter. Once the use submits the form the corresponding block will be displayed if the condition is met.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure this block you need to add it to you result output builder and provide a name and value that will match the data provided by the filter. Once the user submits the form the corresponding block will be displayed if the condition is met.
```

:::tip

> This block goes hand in hand with the [premium Computed Fields Add-on](/forms/addons/premium/computed-fields/intro).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This block goes hand in hand with the [paid Computed Fields Add-on](/forms/addons/premium/computed-fields/intro).
```
A more generic wording might be better long term, "premium" sounds like a tier

:::

## Result output part shortcode

> Just like result output item block, you can use the result output part shortcode to change small parts of text based on the users input. This is useful if you want to display different prices or messages to the user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Just like `result output` item block, you can use the result output part shortcode to change small parts of text based on the users input. This is useful if you want to display different prices or messages to the user.
```

![Result output part shortcode](/img/forms/result-output-4.webp)

:::caution

> This block will not do anything by default as it requires some code configuration provided by the developer. To provide data used in this block you can use [custom filters](/forms/php/filters/block/form/result-output-parts).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This block will not do anything by default as it requires code configuration provided by the developer. To provide data used in this block you can use [custom filters](/forms/php/filters/block/form/result-output-parts).
```

:::

> To configure this shortcode you need to add it to you result output builder, add a `name` that the filter has provide and `default text` that will change based on the data provided by the filter. Once the use submits the form the corresponding shortcode will be updated if the `key:value` par is available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure this shortcode you need to add it to you result output builder, add a `name` that the filter has provided and `default text` that will change based on the data provided by the filter. Once the user submits the form the corresponding shortcode will be updated if the `key:value` par is available.
```

Reviewer 2: I'd add also:

```
To configure this shortcode you'll need to add it
```

> Result output is a feature that allows you to display and block or multiple blocks when the user successfully submits the form. This is useful for forms that require users to perform calculations or you want to display a message to the user after they submit the form.
> 
> ![Result output](/img/forms/result-output-1.webp)
> 
> ## Configuration
> 
> To configure the result output you must follow a few steps:
> 
> 1. Add a result output item that you will reference later. Result outputs list can be found in the WordPress admin sidebar mene.
> 
> 2. Create a new form.
> 
> 3. Open a page where you want to use this form and add it using `forms` block.
> 
> 4. On the same page you need to add a `result output` block.
> 
> 5. Configure `result output` block by providing the form ID and the result output ID in the block settings.
> 
> 6. It is useful to disable global message on form success for better user experience. This option can be found in the form settings.
> 
> 7. Once the user has submitted the form the result output will be displayed.
> 
> ![Result output settings](/img/forms/result-output-2.webp)
> 
> ## Result output item block
> 
> In the result output editor you can find another block called `result output item`. This is useful if you want ot change bigger chunks of content based on the user input. Also this block can be used to show personalized message or blocks to the user based on the their input.
> 
> ![Result output item block](/img/forms/result-output-3.webp)
> 
> :::caution
> This block will not do anything by default as it requires some code configuration provided by the developer. To provide data used in this block you can use [custom filters](/forms/php/filters/block/form/result-output-items).
> :::
> 
> To configure this block you need to add it to you result output builder and provide a name and value that will match the data provided by the filter. Once the use submits the form the corresponding block will be displayed if the condition is met.
> 
> :::tip
> This block goes hand in hand with the [premium Computed Fields Add-on](/forms/addons/premium/computed-fields/intro).
> :::
> 
> ## Result output part shortcode
> 
> Just like result output item block, you can use the result output part shortcode to change small parts of text based on the users input. This is useful if you want to display different prices or messages to the user.
> 
> ![Result output part shortcode](/img/forms/result-output-4.webp)
> 
> :::caution
> This block will not do anything by default as it requires some code configuration provided by the developer. To provide data used in this block you can use [custom filters](/forms/php/filters/block/form/result-output-parts).
> :::
> 
> To configure this shortcode you need to add it to you result output builder, add a `name` that the filter has provide and `default text` that will change based on the data provided by the filter. Once the use submits the form the corresponding shortcode will be updated if the `key:value` par is available.
> 
> :::tip
> This block goes hand in hand with the [premium Computed Fields Add-on](/forms/addons/premium/computed-fields/intro).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
_Result output_ allows displaying user-defined blocks after the form is submitted successfully.

![Result output](/img/forms/result-output-1.webp)

## Configuration

Follow these steps:
1. Add a _Result output item_ and keep its name in mind. Result outputs are found in the WordPress admin sidebar.
2. Create a form
3. Add the form to the desired page
4. Add the _Result output_ block to the same page
5. In the _Result output_ block options select the form and the Result output block you created in step 1
6. (Optional) Disable the global messages in the form settings

Once the form is submitted the select block will be displayed.

![Result output settings](/img/forms/result-output-2.webp)

## _Result output item_ block

Alongside the _Result output_ block you will find the _Result output item_ block. It allows changing parts of the result output or showing things like custom messages, based on user input.

![Result output item block](/img/forms/result-output-3.webp)

:::caution
The block will not show anything by default. Some configuration by developers is required. For more details, check the chapter on [custom filters](/forms/php/filters/block/form/result-output-items).
:::

To configure the block, add it inside a _Result output_ block, and provide a name and a value that will match the data provided by the filter. Once the form is submitted and the condition matches, the selected block will be shown.

:::tip
Works great with the [Computed Fields Add-on](/forms/addons/premium/computed-fields/intro).
:::

## _Result output part_ shortcode

Similar to the _Result output item_ block, the shortcode version allows smaller, inline varations, e.g. simple pieces of text.

![Result output part shortcode](/img/forms/result-output-4.webp)

:::caution
The shortcode will not show anything by default. Some configuration by developers is required. For more details, check the chapter on [custom filters](/forms/php/filters/block/form/result-output-items).
:::

To configure the shortocde, add it somewhere inside the _Result output_ block. Provide a `name` and set the `default text`. The _default text_ will be shown after form submission if the _name_ matches the one in the configuration.

:::tip
Works great with the [Computed Fields Add-on](/forms/addons/premium/computed-fields/intro).
```

> This block goes hand in hand with the [premium Computed Fields Add-on](/forms/addons/premium/computed-fields/intro).

Reviewer: Same as the comment above re word "premium"
